what is 'Grimoire'?

'Grimoire' is an ambitious project whose objective is to provide a software development solution for Amiga computers which is at the same time unique, innovative, educational, scalable, and which is suitable for both beginners and experienced developers.

To achieve its objective, an original approach was studied to develop the first element of the project. An element that has made it possible to develop a unique framework, combining both the power of machine language and the simplicity of basic languages, while allowing object-oriented use.

But how is this possible?

In fact, it is very simple. Through the use of 'Genam', the assembler compiler available in the products of the 'Devpac' range, and more specifically with its macro system, it has been possible to create macros which reproduce the operation of a basic language , directly inside source code in motorola assembler sixty eight thousand.

It was thus possible to create macros allowing to:
- Create and use global variables of integer, string and floating types
- Create procedures accepting parameters drawn from variables or direct values, and allowing to return a value or variable.
- Create and use variables local to procedures
- Create and use real for/next type loops
- Create and use commands such as GOTO, GOSUB and RETURN,

Of course, this means that some internal processor registers have been used through these macros. The developer must therefore consider that he has complete freedom to use the data registers from D0 to D3 and the address registers from A0 to A2, but that he must take into account that a call to a macros, or to one of the functions of the Grimoire libraries, could potentially modify the contents of the data registers from D4 to D7 and the address registers from A3 to A7.

But it does not stop there. Grimoire already has, in its first element, several system functions integrated in Amiga libraries such as grimoire-core.library and grimoire-fpconvert.library. Other libraries and macros will complete the framework to provide other macros simulating basic languages, and why not, other types of language.

The second element of the project will complement the Macros system and, through new libraries, provide a management engine for the various components needed to create software. Components such as the management of screens, sounds, music, inputs and outputs via the mouse and game controllers (joysticks), but also via data files, graphics, sounds and music. The management of files in standard formats such as jpg, png, gif will be integrated as well as the addition of an asset file format allowing several files to be included in one.

With these two 'macros' and 'management functions' elements, developers will have the choice of either relying on Grimoire's creation engine, or using it partially by programming part of the software they want themselves. create, directly in motorola assembler sixty eight thousand.

When these two elements are deployed, the first part of the project will be complete. It will then be time to reveal the second part of the latter. This second part will be developed by Michael Ness, in parallel with the first part. It will be a 'parser' which will make it possible to transform the source code of languages ​​such as Amos Professional, into the format of the Grimoire source code. That is to say the assembler coupled with the system of macros and functions of Grimoire. It is with these three elements, the macros, the functions and the parser that the magic can really begin to operate. It will be possible to recompile, in assembler, under 'genam', the source codes of standard basic languages ​​to give them a second life, or even more, to make them shine with graphics, sounds and more advanced music, while starting to the basis, original source codes.

But a complete software development solution for Amiga would not be complete without its IDE. Thus the IDE will be the last element of the project. It must be modern and provide advanced functionalities such as the management of projects, versions, data files whether they are for raw data, sound files, music and images, to compile the source code, and to allow the creation of 'releases' for your software projects.

You have therefore now fully understood what the 'Grimoire - The Amiga Book of Magic' project will contain.